They proposed to utilize the solar energy from solar panels to automatically pump water
from bore well directly into a ground level storage tank depending on the intensity of sunlight.
While conventional methods include pumping of water from bore well into a well and from this
well onto field using another pump, our system uses only a single stage energy consumption
wherein the water is pumped into a ground level tank from which a simple valve mechanism
controls the flow of water into the field. This saves substantial amount of energy and efficient use
of renewable energy. A valve is controlled using intelligent algorithm in which it regulates the
flow of water into the field depending upon the moisture requirement of the land. In this system
we use a soil moisture sensor that detects the amount of moisture present in the soil and depending
upon the requirement of level of moisture content required for the crop the water flow is regulated
thus, conserving the water by avoiding over flooding of crops.
Proposed irrigation system mainly consists of two modules- Solar pumping module and
automatic irrigation module. In solar pumping module a solar panel of required specification is
mounted near the pump set. Then using a control circuit it is used to charge a battery. From the
battery using a converter circuit it gives power to the water pump which is submerged inside the
well. Then the water is pumped into an overhead tank for storing water temporarily before
releasing the water into the field. In automatic irrigation module the water outlet valve of the tank
is electronically controlled by a soil moisture sensing circuit. The sensor is placed in the field
where the crop is being cultivated. The sensor converts the moisture content in the soil into
equivalent voltage. This is given to a sensing circuit which has a reference voltage that can be
adjusted by the farmer for setting different moisture levels for different crops. The amount of
water needed for soil is proportional to the difference of these two voltages. A control signal was
given to a stepper motor whose rotational angle is proportional to the difference in voltage. The
stepper motor in turns controls the cross sectional area of the valve to be opened controlling flow
of water. Therefore the amount of water flowing is proportional to the moisture difference.
